tip-verify_proof.md, before:

---
```
tip: xx 
title: Zero-knowledeg Proof Verification Instructions 
author: federico<federico.zhen@tron.network>
discussions-to: https://github.com/tronprotocol/tips/issues/xx
status: draft
type: Standards Track
category: TRC
created: 2020-03-09
```

## Simple Summary 

The TIP provides the zero-knowledge proof verification instructions in shielded contract, which can be used in shielded token transactions.

## Abstract 

Furthermore, when constructing the Merkle tree proof, it needs the Pederson Hash computation. This needs another instruction, so there needs to add four instructions in total. 

The TIP introduces three new instructions: `VERIFYMINTPROOF`, `VERIFYTRANSFERPROOF`, and `VERIFYBURNPROOF`, which can accelerate the zero-knowledge verification for the `mint`, `transfer` and `burn` modules in shielded token contract. 

## Motivation 

In order to implement shielded transaction for [TRC-20](https://github.com/tronprotocol/TIPs/blob/master/tip-20.md) token,  We have developed the shielded token contract. The contract has three core modules: `mint`, `transfer` and `burn`. `mint` is used to transform the public TRC-20 tokens into shielded tokens. `transfer` is used for shielded  token transactions. `burn` is  used to transform the shielded  tokens back to public TRC-20 tokens.  The shielded contract is implemented based on zero-knowledge proof, so it needs the complex zero-knowledge proof verification in `mint`, `transfer` and `burn` methods. In order to accelerate the speed, we will make use of  instructions in the contract to implement the verification process. 



## Specification (required)

(1)`VERIFYMINTPROOF` 

`VERIFYMINTPROOF` is used to verify the validity of zero-knowledge proof when transforming the public TRC-20 token into shielded tokens.  

```
(bool result,bytes memory msg) = VERIFYMINTPROOF(byte[1480] intput);
```

The length of `input` is 1480 bytes. For the output, `reuslt` is a bool value to indicate whether the proof verification succeeds, the length of `msg` is 33~1057 bytes, which returns the node value to construct the Merkle tree. 

（2）`VERIFYTRANSFERPROOF` 

`VERIFYTRANSFERPROOF` is used to verify the validity of zero-knowledge proof for shielded tokens transactions.  

```
(bool result,bytes memory msg) = VERIFYTRANSFERPROOF(byte[2144] intput);
```

The length of total_intput ：2144 bytes

The length of output：result：1byte

​      msg: 66 ~ 1058 bytes

The length of `input` is 2144 bytes. For the output, `reuslt` is a bool value to indicate whether the proof verification succeeds, the length of `msg` is 66~1058 bytes, which returns the node value to construct the Merkle tree. 

（3）`VERIFYBURNPROOF`指令 

`VERIFYMINTPROOF` is used to verify the validity of zero-knowledge proof when transforming the shielded tokens back to  public TRC-20 tokens.  

```
(bool result,bytes memory msg) = VERIFYBURNPROOF(byte[488] input);
```

The length of `input` is 488 bytes. For the output, `reuslt` is a bool value to indicate whether the proof verification succeeds, the length of `msg` is 0.

## Rationale

By introducing the zero-knowledge proof verification instructions, it will be more convenient for shielded token contract implementation, which can providing users stronger privacy for shielded token transactions.

## Test Cases



## Implementation

Commit message:

add the time cost for the  proof instructions

tip-verify_proof.md, after:

---
```
tip: xx 
title: Zero-knowledeg Proof Verification Instructions 
author: federico<federico.zhen@tron.network>
discussions-to: https://github.com/tronprotocol/tips/issues/xx
status: draft
type: Standards Track
category: TRC
created: 2020-03-09
```

## Simple Summary 

The TIP provides the zero-knowledge proof verification instructions in shielded contract, which can be used in shielded token transactions.

## Abstract 

The TIP introduces three new instructions: `VERIFYMINTPROOF`, `VERIFYTRANSFERPROOF`, and `VERIFYBURNPROOF`, which can accelerate the zero-knowledge verification for the `mint`, `transfer` and `burn` modules in shielded token contract. 

## Motivation 

In order to implement shielded transaction for [TRC-20](https://github.com/tronprotocol/TIPs/blob/master/tip-20.md) token,  We have developed the shielded token contract. The contract has three core modules: `mint`, `transfer` and `burn`. `mint` is used to transform the public TRC-20 tokens into shielded tokens. `transfer` is used for shielded  token transactions. `burn` is  used to transform the shielded  tokens back to public TRC-20 tokens.  The shielded contract is implemented based on zero-knowledge proof, so it needs the complex zero-knowledge proof verification in `mint`, `transfer` and `burn` methods. In order to accelerate the speed, we will make use of  instructions in the contract to implement the verification process. 

## Specification

(1)`VERIFYMINTPROOF` 

`VERIFYMINTPROOF` is used to verify the validity of zero-knowledge proof when transforming the public TRC-20 token into shielded tokens.  

```
(bool result,bytes memory msg) = VERIFYMINTPROOF(byte[1480] intput);
```

The length of `input` is 1480 bytes. For the output, `reuslt` is a bool value to indicate whether the proof verification succeeds, the length of `msg` is 33~1057 bytes, which returns the node value to construct the Merkle tree. The time cost of `VERIFYMINTPROOF` instruction takes about 10ms.

（2）`VERIFYTRANSFERPROOF` 

`VERIFYTRANSFERPROOF` is used to verify the validity of zero-knowledge proof for shielded tokens transactions.  

```
(bool result,bytes memory msg) = VERIFYTRANSFERPROOF(byte[2144] intput);
```

The length of `input` is 2144 bytes. For the output, `reuslt` is a bool value to indicate whether the proof verification succeeds, the length of `msg` is 66~1058 bytes, which returns the node value to construct the Merkle tree. The time cost of `VERIFYTRANSFERPROOF` instruction takes about 15ms in parallel mode.

（3）`VERIFYBURNPROOF`指令 

`VERIFYMINTPROOF` is used to verify the validity of zero-knowledge proof when transforming the shielded tokens back to  public TRC-20 tokens.  

```
(bool result,bytes memory msg) = VERIFYBURNPROOF(byte[488] input);
```

The length of `input` is 488 bytes. For the output, `reuslt` is a bool value to indicate whether the proof verification succeeds, the length of `msg` is 0. The time cost of `VERIFYBURNPROOF` instruction takes about 10ms.

## Rationale

By introducing the zero-knowledge proof verification instructions, it will be more convenient for shielded token contract implementation, which can providing users stronger privacy for shielded token transactions.

## Test Cases



## Implementation
