tip-157.md, before:

```
tip: 157
title: Freeze instructions in TVM
author: taihao.fu@gmail.com
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: Core
created: 2020-06-03

```

## Simple Summary

To provide freeze related operations in TVM.

## Abstract

Freeze & Unfreeze operation in system contract are introduced, smart contract can freeze and get resource from the system.

## Motivation

Common user can freeze TRX to get resource, such as TRON power, bandwidth, energy. However, none privatekey accounts, like smart contracts, can't get resources from the staking mechanism.  This TIP provide instructions to get resource, so that smart contracts can provide tron power for voting and also provide resource delegation to others.

## Specification

### New instructions in TVM

#### `0xd5`: `FREEZE`

The `FREEZE` takes 3 operands pop up from stack:

`receiverAddress`: account address to receive generated resource. 

`freezeAmount`: amount to freeze in SUN.

`resourceType`: 0 as bandwidth, 1 as energy.

If operation succeed, push 1 to stack, otherwise push 0 to stack.

#### `0xd6`: `UNFREEZE`

The `UNFREEZE` takes 2 operands pop up from stack.

`receiverAddress`: account address which received resource.

`resourceType`: 0 as bandwidth, 1 as energy.

If operation succeed, push 1 to stack, otherwise push 0 to stack.

#### `0xd7`: `FREEZEEXPIRETIME`

The `FREEZEEXPIRETIME` takes 2 operands from stack.

`targetAddress`: target account address.

`resourceType`: 0 as bandwidth, 1 as energy.

If operation succeed, push the expire time to stack, otherwise push 0 to stack.

#### Notice

For `FREEZE` or `UNFREEZE`, if `receiverAddress` == `contractAddress`, means that contract freeze or unfreeze for itself.

For `FREEZE` or `UNFREEZE`, `receiverAddress` must not be address of contract.

For `FREEZE`, amount must not be less than 1 TRX = 10e6 SUN.

### Solidity example

```solidity
contract TestFreeze {

    function freeze(address payable receiver, uint amount, uint res) external returns(uint) {
        receiver.freeze(amount, res);
        return this.getExpireTime(receiver, res) - now;
    }
    
    function unfreeze(address payable receiver, uint res) external returns(uint) {
        receiver.unfreeze(res);
        return 1;
    }
    
    function getExpireTime(address payable target, uint res) external view returns(uint) {
	    return target.freezeExpireTime(res);
    }
}
```

#### Notice

`receiver` or `target` must have `address payable` type, means that calling those methods on non-payable `address` will cause a complier error.

## Rationale

### Tier

`FREEZE` tier.ExtTier

`UNFREEZE` tier.ExtTier

`FREEZEEXPIRETIME` tier.ExtTier

### Selfdestruct

If contract still has unfreezed balance for others, selfdestruct will case `REVERT` exception.

Unfreezed balance for contract itself will be unfreezed and transfer to inheritor`s balance after selfdesturct executed.

Commit message:

change status of tip-157 to final

tip-157.md, after:

```
tip: 157
title: Freeze instructions in TVM
author: taihao.fu@gmail.com
status: Final
type: Standards Track
category: Core
created: 2020-06-03

```

## Simple Summary

To provide freeze related operations in TVM.

## Abstract

Freeze & Unfreeze operation in system contract are introduced, smart contract can freeze and get resource from the system.

## Motivation

Common user can freeze TRX to get resource, such as TRON power, bandwidth, energy. However, none privatekey accounts, like smart contracts, can't get resources from the staking mechanism.  This TIP provide instructions to get resource, so that smart contracts can provide tron power for voting and also provide resource delegation to others.

## Specification

### New instructions in TVM

#### `0xd5`: `FREEZE`

The `FREEZE` takes 3 operands pop up from stack:

`receiverAddress`: account address to receive generated resource. 

`freezeAmount`: amount to freeze in SUN.

`resourceType`: 0 as bandwidth, 1 as energy.

If operation succeed, push 1 to stack, otherwise push 0 to stack.

#### `0xd6`: `UNFREEZE`

The `UNFREEZE` takes 2 operands pop up from stack.

`receiverAddress`: account address which received resource.

`resourceType`: 0 as bandwidth, 1 as energy.

If operation succeed, push 1 to stack, otherwise push 0 to stack.

#### `0xd7`: `FREEZEEXPIRETIME`

The `FREEZEEXPIRETIME` takes 2 operands pop up from stack.

`targetAddress`: target account address.

`resourceType`: 0 as bandwidth, 1 as energy.

If operation succeed, push the expire time to stack, otherwise push 0 to stack.

#### Notice

For `FREEZE` or `UNFREEZE`, if `receiverAddress` == `contractAddress`, means that contract freeze or unfreeze for itself.

For `FREEZE` or `UNFREEZE`, if `receiverAddress` != `contractAddress`,  `receiverAddress` must not be address of contract.

For `FREEZE`, automatically active non-existent account and consume additional energy.

For `FREEZE`, amount must not be less than 1 TRX = 10e6 SUN.

For `FREEZEEXPIRETIME`, return value is in seconds.

### Solidity example

```solidity
contract TestFreeze {

    function freeze(address payable receiver, uint amount, uint res) external returns(uint) {
        receiver.freeze(amount, res);
        return this.getExpireTime(receiver, res) - now;
    }
    
    function unfreeze(address payable receiver, uint res) external returns(uint) {
        receiver.unfreeze(res);
        return 1;
    }
    
    function getExpireTime(address payable target, uint res) external view returns(uint) {
	    return target.freezeExpireTime(res);
    }
}
```

#### Notice

`receiver` or `target` must have `address payable` type, means that calling those methods on non-payable `address` will cause a complier error.

## Rationale

### Tier

`FREEZE` tier.ExtTier

`UNFREEZE` tier.ExtTier

`FREEZEEXPIRETIME` tier.ExtTier

### Selfdestruct

If contract still has unfreezed balance for others, selfdestruct will case `REVERT` exception.

Unfreezed balance for contract itself will be unfreezed and transfer to inheritor`s balance after selfdesturct executed.
