tip-138.md, before:

---
```
tip: 138 
title: Pedersen hash function 
author: federico<federico.zhen@tron.network>
discussions-to: https://github.com/tronprotocol/tips/issues/138
status: draft
type: Standards Track
category: TRC
created: 2020-03-10
```

## Simple Summary 

The TIP provides the Pedersen hash computation function in shielded contract, which can be used in shielded token transactions.

## Abstract 

The TIP introduces the `PedersenHash` function, which is used for compuation of Merkle tree node value in shielded contract. 

## Motivation 

In order to implement shielded transaction for [TRC-20](https://github.com/tronprotocol/TIPs/blob/master/tip-20.md) token,  We have developed the shielded token contract and  it needs the Merkle tree construction and proof, which needs the Pedersen hash compution. So providing the Pedersen hash function `PedersenHash` is nesscessary for shielded contract implementation.

## Specification

`PedersenHash` function is used to compute the node value in the  Merkle tree.

```
bytes memory msg = PedersenHash(uint256 level, bytes32 left, bytes32 right)
```

The length of `input` is 96 bytes and it includes three parameters: `level`, `left` and `right`. `level` denotes Merkle tree level; `left` denotes the left child node and `right` denotes the right child node.  For the output,the length of `msg` is 33 bytes. The first byte is a bool value to indicate whether the Pedersen hash computation succeeds, and the other 32 bytes return the parent node value to construct the Merkle tree. The time cost of `PedersenHash` function takes less than 1ms.

## Rationale

By introducing the Pedersen hash computation function, it will be more convenient for Merkle tree construction and  shielded token contract implementation, which can providing users stronger privacy for shielded token transactions.

## Test Cases



## Implementation

Commit message:

adjust some technical details and add the test case

tip-138.md, after:

---
```
tip: 138 
title: Pedersen hash function 
author: federico<federico.zhen@tron.network>
discussions-to: https://github.com/tronprotocol/tips/issues/138
status: draft
type: Standards Track
category: TRC
created: 2020-03-10
```

## Simple Summary 

The TIP provides the Pedersen hash computation function in shielded contract, which can be used in shielded token transactions.

## Abstract 

The TIP introduces the `hashor` function, which is used for compuation of Merkle tree node value in shielded contract. 

## Motivation 

In order to implement shielded transaction for [TRC-20](https://github.com/tronprotocol/TIPs/blob/master/tip-20.md) token,  We have developed the shielded token contract and  it needs the Merkle tree construction and proof, which needs the Pedersen hash compution. So providing the Pedersen hash function `hashor` is nesscessary for shielded contract implementation.

## Specification

`hashor` function is used to compute the node value in the  Merkle tree.

```
(bool result, bytes memory msg) = hashor(abi.encode(level, left, right))
```

* `level` - Merkle tree level
* `left` - the left child node in the Merkle tree
* `right` - the right child node in the Merkle tree

```
[32 bytes for level][32 bytes for left][32 bytes for right]
```

 For the output, `result` is a bool value to indicate whether the Pedersen hash computation succeeds. The length of `msg` is 32 bytes, which returns the parent node value in the Merkle tree. The time cost of `hashor` function takes less than 1ms.

## Rationale

By introducing the Pedersen hash computation function, it will be more convenient for Merkle tree construction and  shielded token contract implementation, which can provide users stronger privacy for shielded token transactions.

## Test Case

Input:

`level` : 0

`left` : 0x0100000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000

`right`: 0x0100000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000

Output:

`result` : true

`msg` : 0x817de36ab2d57feb077634bca77819c8e0bd298c04f6fed0e6a83cc1356ca155

## Implementation 
* https://github.com/tronprotocol/java-tron/blob/feature/shielded_TRC20_contract/actuator/src/main/java/org/tron/core/vm/PrecompiledContracts.java
